Docs: Add plugin overview (#24332)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/plugins/_index.md

[menu.docs]
name = "Plugins"
identifier = "plugins"
weight = 1
+++

# Plugins

> In addition to the wide range of visualizations and data sources that are available immediately after you install Grafana, you can extend your Grafana experience through _plugins_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the wide range of visualizations and data sources that are available immediately after you install Grafana, you can extend your Grafana experience with _plugins_.
```

Reviewer: We should add a definition for "plugin" here.

> You can [install]({{< relref "./installation.md" >}}) one of the plugins built by the Grafana community, or [build one yourself]({{< relref "./developing/development.md" >}}).

Reviewer: Rather than linking to installation.md, I recommend linking to https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins?orderBy=weight&direction=asc

The Install plugins instructions basically say "go to this page and follow the directions"

Author: I feel silly for asking, but why do why have a docs page for installing plugins then? :)

> Grafana supports three types of plugins: _panels_, _data sources_, and _apps_.

Reviewer: It feels like we are missing a connection between this and the plugins page. Somewhere in here explain that you can filter plugins on the Grafana Plugins page by these types. What that page is missing is the concept information you have here.

Reviewer: Ooh! We can link to the filtered views.

https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins?direction=asc&orderBy=weight&type=panel

## Panel plugins

> Add new visualizations to your dashboard through panel plugins, such as [world maps](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-worldmap-panel), [clocks](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel), and [pie charts](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-piechart-panel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add new visualizations to your dashboard with panel plugins, such as [world maps](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-worldmap-panel), [clocks](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel), and [pie charts](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-piechart-panel).
```

Reviewer: I generally recommend that we use the exact name of the item linked as the link text.

Use panel plugins when you want to:

- Visualize data returned by data source queries.
- Navigate between dashboards.
- Control external systems, such as smart home devices.

> ## Data source plugins

Reviewer: This section would be a great place to link to the specific tutorials, perhaps at the end of each section. If you're a developer, this tutorial shows you how to build your own data source plugin.

Author: I tried to make this document work for both end-users (using plugins) and developers (building plugins). Maybe instead add a link to a "Build a plugin overview" to the Learn more section?

Data source plugins add support for new databases, such as [Google BigQuery](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/doitintl-bigquery-datasource).

Data source plugins communicate with external sources of data and return the data in a format that Grafana understands. By adding a data source plugin, you can immediately use the data in any of your existing dashboards.

Use data source plugins when you want to:

> - Import data from external systems.

Reviewer: Can you add a second bullet to this list? If not, then remove the bulleted list and write it as a sentence.

> ## App plugins

Reviewer: We should use the word "application" in here somewhere.

App plugins bundle data sources and panels to provide a cohesive experience, such as the [Zabbix](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/alexanderzobnin-zabbix-app) and [Kubernetes](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-kubernetes-app) apps.

> Apps can optionally add custom pages, for things like control panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apps can also add custom pages for things like control panels.
```

> Use app plugins when you want to:

Reviewer: Same as above, add a second bullet or write this as a contiguous sentence.
